---
layout: default
gallery-nav:
  - title: Not to Scale
    url: "#not-to-scale"
  - title: For Further Reading
    url: "#for-further-reading"
---

# VisLies 2022 Gallery

After two years of having to meet through cameras and screens, we were
finally able to meet in person for VisLies again.

## Not to Scale

<a href="human-to-not-scale.png" class="image-right">
<img src="lie.png" class="lie" style="left:250px;" />
![](human-to-not-scale-thumb.png)
</a>

[Ken Moreland] started out with a fun example from an [amazon.com product
page for carbon filters]. As with most listing, several pictures are
provided for the product. One of the pictures, shown here, is dedicated to
demonstrating the size and provides a silhouette of a person to help with
scale.

At first glance, the filter pads look huge. The pad is nearly half the
height of a person. But wait. If we look at the actual dimensions of the
pad, we see that the pad is only about a foot tall. Either the sizes of the
pad and the person are not to scale, or that person is only a couple of
feet tall.

On top of that, there is a second view of the pad, unfolded this time. The
unfolded pad is labeled at about 4 feet tall. That is clearly not at the
same scale as the folded pad, and also shorter than the average adult.

None of the three items in this picture are to scale with each other, and
human silhouettes are not part of what is being sold. Thus, the only
function the person serves in this picture is to make the product look
larger than it actually is.

[Ken Moreland]: https://www.kennethmoreland.com/
[amazon.com product page for carbon filters]: https://www.amazon.com/Universal-Activated-Replacement-Purifiers-Conditioner/dp/B087M45SL5/ref=sr_1_1

## For Further Reading

The last couple of years have brought some serious scientific research
relevant to VisLies. The first of these is "[Misinformed by Visualization:
What Do We Learn From Misinformative Visualizations?]" by Lo, Gupta,
Shigyo, Wu, Bertini, and Qu. The authors collected a large corpus of
visualizations marked as flawed on social media. They systematically
sampled and reviewed these visualizations and propose a taxonomy to
classify misleading visualizations. In addition to the paper itself, the
authors helpfully make available a [bad vis browser] that readers such as
ourselves can mine for VisLies. They also provide [their whole flawed
visualization corpus] for an even deeper dive.

<a href="https://leoyuholo.com/bad-vis-browser/" class="image-full">
![](misinformed-vis-page.png)
</a>

[Misinformed by Visualization: What Do We Learn From Misinformative Visualizations?]: https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/cgf.14559
[bad vis browser]: https://leoyuholo.com/bad-vis-browser/ 
[their whole flawed visualization corpus]: https://osf.io/wghxd/ 

<a href="https://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445211" class="image-right">
![](covid-viral-vis.png)
</a>

Another relevant publication is "[Viral Visualizations: How Coronavirus
Skeptics Use Orthodox Data Practices to Promote Unorthodox Science Online]"
by Lee, Yang, Inchoco, Jones, and Satyanarayan. This paper analyzes
visualizations from twitter feeds in "anti-mask" communities. The paper
finds that, surprisingly, these communities respected and mimicked science
principles while simultaneously rejecting the science community. There was
a strong focus on data access and analysis as well as a promotion of
correct visualization techniques.

At the same time, the forums rejected analysis from experts. This served to
isolate the community from contrary positions and allowed them to ignore or
reject contrary evidence. The end result was many compelling, but
ultimately incorrect, visualizations.

[Viral Visualizations: How Coronavirus Skeptics Use Orthodox Data Practices to Promote Unorthodox Science Online]: https://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445211
